Added per branch colors to plot_morphology (#169)
dbbs-lab/bsb: packages/bsb/docs/simulation/simulation-controllers.rst

######################
Simulation Controllers
######################

The Brain Scaffold Builder (BSB) allows you to define and trigger actions at specific checkpoints during a simulation.
This is useful for tasks such as resetting values, saving data, or updating a component's state.

> You can apply this feature to any SimulationComponent (including ``cell_model``, ``connection_model`` and ``device``) by implementing a Controller.

Author: ```suggestion
You can apply this feature to any SimulationComponent (including ``cell_model``, ``connection_model`` and ``device``) by implementing the "controller" interface.
```

> A Controller is a component that must implement two primary methods:

Author: ```suggestion
A controller is a component that must implement two primary methods:
```

We'd only capitalize this if referring to a specific class such as `Controller`, but it's a functional interface and valid English word, so I prefer the lowercase.

>   * ``get_next_checkpoint()``: This method returns a *float* representing the time of the next checkpoint. The simulation adapter calls this to determine when the controller's progress method should be triggered.

Author: ```suggestion
  * ``get_next_checkpoint()``: This method returns a *float* representing the time of the next checkpoint. The simulation adapter calls this to determine when the simulation will pause next to run a checkpoint.
```

  * ``run_checkpoint()``: This method contains the logic for the action to be performed when the checkpoint is reached.

Example: A simple controlling Device
------------------------------------

> This example demonstrates how to extend a custom Device named :guilabel:`MyDevice` to act as a controller.

Author: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to extend a custom device named :guilabel:`MyDevice` to act as a controller.
```

This controller updates a :guilabel:`status` attribute and prints the value of :guilabel:`ids` attribute every fixed time step.

.. code-block:: python

    @config.node
    class NewController(
        MyDevice

>     ):

Author: ```suggestion
    class MyDevice:
```

There is no parent `MyDevice` in this example. LLM mistake?

Reviewer: Eh that's because i wanted to show that every general device can be extended to a controller, maybe i could add above a device definition like:
```
class MyDevice(DeviceModel):
     def implement(adapter, simulation, simdata):
      # Implement here the core logic of you device
```

Author: It's not the point of this example to show how component inheritance works. I think it will only serve to confuse people, and perhaps even give them the impression that that is how it **must** be done.

        step = config.attr(type=float, required=True)

        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.status = 0

        def get_next_checkpoint(self):
        # Here insert the logic to determine the timing of your next checkpoint
            return self.status + self.step

>         def progress(self):

Author: ```suggestion
        def run_checkpoint(self):
```

        # The checkpoint is reached, execute all the desired actions
            self.status += self.step

>             print(self.ids)

Author: What is self.ids? Maybe execute a clearer action here such as `print("Checkpoint reached!", self.status)`

######################
Simulation Controllers
######################

The Brain Scaffold Builder (BSB) allows you to define and trigger actions at specific checkpoints during a simulation.
This is useful for tasks such as resetting values, saving data, or updating a component's state.
You can apply this feature to any SimulationComponent (including ``cell_model``, ``connection_model`` and ``device``) by implementing a Controller.

A Controller is a component that must implement two primary methods:

  * ``get_next_checkpoint()``: This method returns a *float* representing the time of the next checkpoint. The simulation adapter calls this to determine when the controller's progress method should be triggered.

  * ``progress()``: This method contains the logic for the action to be performed when the checkpoint is reached.

> An optional third method, ``on_start()``, can also be implemented to trigger an action at the beginning of the simulation.

Author: This was never discussed. What is the difference with `implement`?
